Doc/#1315 - Document Azure blob data node (#1327)
Avaiga/taipy-doc: docs/userman/advanced_features/3rd-party-integration/azure.md

# Azure Blob Storage Integration

!!! note "Available in Taipy Enterprise edition"
    This section is relevant only to the [Taipy Enterprise Edition](https://taipy.io/enterprise)

    [Contact us](https://taipy.io/book-a-call){: .tp-btn .tp-btn--accent target='blank' }

## Installation

To use the Azure Blob Storage integration, you need to install the optional package. You can do
this using pip:

```bash
pip install taipy-enterprise[azure-storage]
```

## Overview

The Azure Blob Storage integration provides the following features:

- **[Azure Blob Data Node](#azure-blob-data-node)**:
    A Taipy Data Node that represents a blob in Azure Blob Storage.
- **[Azure File-based Data Node](#azure-file-based-data-node)**:

>     Azure Blob as a file-based data node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    File-based data nodes (such as CSV, JSON, pickle, etc.) can accept an Azure Blob link as a
    path.
```

- _**azure_blob_parameters**_: represents additional parameters for advanced use cases.

To authenticate with Azure Blob Storage, one of the following authentication methods
must be provided:
- **Connection String**: Use the *azure_connection_string* parameter to provide the connection string
    to authenticate with Azure Blob Storage.
- **Entra ID**: Use the *entra_id_client_id*, *entra_id_tenant_id*, and *entra_id_client_secret* parameters
    to authenticate with Azure Blob Storage using Entra ID.
- **Azure Account**: Use the *azure_account_name* and *azure_account_key* parameters to authenticate
    with Azure Blob Storage using the Azure account name and key.

!!! example

    ```python linenums="1"
    {%
    include-markdown "./code-example/data-node-config-azure.py"
    comments=false
    %}
    ```

    In lines 3-15, we configure an Azure Blob data node with the id "historical_data" pointing to
    the Azure Blob "hist_data.zip" in the "data_container" container. The credential to connect to
    Azure Blob Storage is provided through the connection string.

    In lines 17-32, we configure another Azure Blob data node with the id "log_history" pointing to

>     the Azure Blob "log_data.zip" in the same "data_container" container. The credential to connect

Reviewer: Can we use a .txt file instead?

    to Azure Blob Storage is provided through the Entra ID authentication with the client ID,
    tenant ID, and client secret.

    In line 34-47, we configure another Azure Blob data node with the id "sales_history" pointing
    to the Azure Blob "sales_data.zip" in the "data_container" container. The credential to connect
    to Azure Blob Storage is provided through the Azure account name and key.

!!! note

    To configure a Databricks Table data node, it is equivalent to using the method
    `Config.configure_azure_blob_data_node()^` or the method `Config.configure_data_node()^`

>     with parameter `storage_type="azure_blob"`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
!!! note

    To configure an Azure Blob data node, it is equivalent to using the method
    `Config.configure_azure_blob_data_node()^` or the method `Config.configure_data_node()^`
    with parameter `storage_type="azure_blob"`.
```
